= Request-log-analyzer

This is a simple command line tool to analyze request log files in various formats to produce a performance report. Its purpose is to find what actions are best candidates for optimization.

* Analyzes log files. Currently supports: Amazon S3, Apache, Delayed::Job, Merb, Mysql, PostgreSQL, Rack, Rails and more.
* Combines multiple files and decompresses compressed files, which comes in handy if you are using logrotate.
* Uses several metrics, including cumulative request time, mean request time, process blockers, database and rendering time, HTTP methods and statuses, Rails action cache statistics, etc.) (Sample output: http://wiki.github.com/wvanbergen/request-log-analyzer/sample-output)
* Low memory footprint and reasonably fast, so it is safe to run on a production server.
* MIT licensed

See the project wiki at http://wiki.github.com/wvanbergen/request-log-analyzer for documentation and additional information.

== Installation & basic usage

Install request-log-analyzer as a Ruby gem (you might need to run this command
as root by prepending +sudo+ to it):

  $ gem install request-log-analyzer

To analyze a Rails log file and produce a performance report, run
request-log-analyzer like this:

  $ request-log-analyzer log/production.log

For more details, other file formats, and available command line options, see the project's wiki at http://wiki.github.com/wvanbergen/request-log-analyzer

== Additional information

Request-log-analyzer was designed and built by Willem van Bergen and Bart ten
Brinke.

Do you have a rails application that is not performing as it should? If you need
an expert to analyze your application, feel free to contact either Willem van
Bergen (willem@railsdoctors.com) or Bart ten Brinke (bart@railsdoctors.com).

* Project wiki at GitHub: http://wiki.github.com/wvanbergen/request-log-analyzer
* railsdoctors homepage: http://railsdoctors.com
* wvanbergen's blog posts: http://techblog.floorplanner.com/tag/request-log-analyzer